Hit points represent a combination of physical and mental durability, the will to live, and luck. Creatures with more 
hit points are more difficult to kill. Those with fewer hit points are more fragile.

At first level, every character starts with 10 hit points + their Endurance modifier (minimum of +0). Each time a
character levels up, they gain a number of hit points equal to their Endurance modifier (minimum of 1). If a character
increases their Endurance modifier at a later level, they retroactively gain any hit points they would've had if their
Endurance modifier was always this high.

For example, a character at 4th level who increases their Endurance by 1 would gain 4 more hit points - one for every 
every level they have.

Hit Dice
A character has a number of hit dice equal to their level, and can spend them during a short or long rest to regain 
lost hit points. The size of the die used is determined by your Endurance score: For Endurance 1-4, use a d4; for 
Endurance 5-6, use a d6; 7-8, use a d8; 9-10, use a d10. You do not add any modifiers to these rolls. You regain a 
number of hit points equal to the sum of the values rolled on the hit dice.

During a short or long rest, you can spend as many hit dice as you want. At the end of a long rest, if you no longer 
have any levels of exhaustion, you regain up to 2 spent hit dice (up to 4 spent hit dice when your character's level is 
11 or greater).

Damage
A creature's current hit points (usually just called hit points) can be any number from the creature's hit point 
maximum down to 0. This number changes frequently as a creature takes damage or receives healing.

Whenever a creature takes damage, that damage is subtracted from its hit points. The loss of hit points effects a
creature's capabilities. When your current hit points are below half your maximum, you suffer one level of exhaustion;
once they fall below 1/4 of your maximum you suffer a second level of exhaustion. Exhaustion gained this way can only
be removed through sufficient healing to bring your hit points back above the aforementioned thresholds.

When you drop to 0 hit points, you either die outright or fall unconscious, as explained in the following sections.

Instant Death
Massive damage can kill you instantly. When damage reduces you to 0 hit points and there is damage remaining, you die 
if the remaining damage equals or exceeds your hit point maximum.

For example, a character with a maximum of 12 hit points currently has 6 hit points. If she takes 18 damage from an 
attack, she is reduced to 0 hit points, but 12 damage remains. Because the remaining damage equals her hit point 
maximum, the character dies.

Falling Unconscious
If damage reduces you to 0 hit points and fails to kill you, you fall unconscious. This unconsciousness ends if you 
regain any hit points.

Death Saving Throws
Whenever you start your turn with 0 hit points, you must make a special saving throw, called a death saving throw, to 
determine whether you creep closer to death or hang onto life. Unlike other saving throws, this one isn't tied to any 
ability score. You are in the hands of fate now, aided only by spells and features that improve your chances of 
succeeding on a saving throw.

Roll a d20. If the roll is 10 or higher, you succeed. Otherwise, you fail. A success or failure has no effect by 
itself. On your third success, you become stable (see below). On your third failure, you die. The successes and 
failures don't need to be consecutive; keep track of both until you collect three of a kind. The number of both is 
reset to zero when you regain any hit points or become stable.

Rolling 1 or 20. When you make a death saving throw and roll a 1 on the d20, it counts as two failures. If you roll a 
20 on the d20, you regain 1 hit point.

Damage at 0 Hit Points. If you take any damage while you have 0 hit points, you suffer a death saving throw failure. 
If the damage is from a critical hit, you suffer two failures instead. If the damage equals or exceeds your hit point 
maximum, you suffer instant death.